# East-West-Bridge-Problem_OS-Project
PROBLEM STATEMENT

There is a bridge which is aligned along the east-west direction. This bridge is too narrow to allow cars to go in both directions. Hence, cars must alternate going across the bridge. The bridge is also not strong enough to hold more than three cars at a time. Find a solution to this problem which does not cause starvation. That is, cars that want to get across should eventually get across. However, we want to maximize use of the bridge. Cars should travel across to the maximum capacity of the bridge (that is, three cars should go at one time). If a car leaves the bridge going east and there are no westbound cars, then the next eastbound car should be allowed to cross. We don't want a solution which moves cars across the bridge three at a time, i.e., eastbound cars that are waiting should not wait until all three cars that are eastbound  and crossing the bridge have crossed before being permitted to cross.

SOLUTION

The problem can be recast as a multiple readers writers problem. Intuitively, one of the reader coming to the room, and the writers is in the same room, reader sit on the bench (if one is an eastbound car, and westbound cars are going across, then wait). If there are fewer than three readers, and there are no writers waiting, then reader enter the room. If there are already three readers, then wait. If reader is exiting the room, then if there are no writers, but there are readers waiting, then let a single reader in. If there are writers waiting, but there are not the last reader to leave, then reader just leave. If reader is the last reader to leave, there should be no waiting readers unless there are waiting writers. In either case, can be up to three writers into the room.
The main difference between the multiple readers-multiple writers problem is that at most three readers or writers can be in the room at the same time. We still have the last reader potentially letting up to three writers in and vice versa.
